AIRPLANE CRASH SEVERITY PREDICTION
USING MACHINE LEARNING
Jay Mehta
Department Of Computer Science
Sardar Patel Institute Of Technology
Mumbai, India
jay.mehta@spit.ac.in
Vaidehi Vatsaraj
Department Of Computer Science
Sardar Patel Institute Of Technology
Mumbai, India
vaidehi.vatsaraj@spit.ac.in
Jinal Shah
Department Of Computer Science
Sardar Patel Institute Of Technology
Mumbai, India
jinal.shah@spit.ac.in
Anand Godbole
Department Of Computer Science
Sardar Patel Institute Of Technology
Mumbai, India
anand godbole@spit.ac.in
Abstract—Airplanes are considered as the fastest and most
preferred mode of travel all around the world. However, air travel
always comes with the risk of accidents and plane crashes. The
severity of these hazards spans over a range from moderate to
even fatal depending on a number of parameters. This paper
proposes a methodology to predict airplane crash severity using
several machine learning algorithms. Out of the many factors
that have an impact on the crash, nine of them having a
major correlation are taken into consideration. The prediction
categories are made based on the number of fatalities and the
amount of damage caused to the aircraft. Algorithms such as
Support Vector Machine, Random Forest, Gradient Boosting
Classifier, K Nearest Neighbors Classifier, Logistic Regression
and an Artificial Neural Network are applied along with ensemble
techniques and the results are compared to provide a realistic
and reliable prediction.
Index Terms—Airplane Crash, Severity Prediction, Machine
Learning Algorithms, Artificial Neural Networks, Stacking Ensemble
I. INTRODUCTION
Aviation provides a rapid network all across the world making
it a crucial mode of transportation. It is used for a variety
of reasons and supports 65.5 millions of jobs and contributes
$2.7 trillion in global GDP [1]. It fosters economic growth and
national-international trade and tourism, creates employment
opportunities and acts as a boon in situations of calamities. Since the first flight in 1903, the Airport Industry has
undergone substantial changes improving the overall flight
experience, safety quotient and expanding the network to
connect all countries. While air transportation is considered
to be the safest mode, survival rate in an aircraft accident
is very low as the results of the crash may be catastrophic.
Airplane accidents are never attributed to one cause and are
usually a combination of multiple, sometimes one leading to
another as referred to in the industry as ‘Swiss Cheese Model’
[2]. Hence it is important to consider all parameters playing a
role in the operation of aircrafts. Common causes of accidents
include human error (pilot/ air traffic controller/ dispatcher),
mechanical failure, bad weather etc. In any circumstances, it
becomes necessary to predict the possible number of fatalities
and injuries i.e human loss and damage to the aircraft. This is
observed to depend on factors such as geographic location of
accident, weather type, type of engine etc.
Machine Learning is a technique that can classify data and
make predictions without predetermined rules. This paper
focuses on using machine learning algorithms to predict the
crash severity. Crash severity mainly has two parts, viz damage
to the aircraft and human loss. The paper explores algorithms
such as Support Vector Machine, Random Forest, Gradient
Boosting Classifier, K Nearest Neighbors Classifier, Logistic
Regression and an Artificial Neural Network, compares the
results and justifies them. It also utilizes the stacking ensemble
technique to further enhance the accuracy of the model. The
dataset for the same is obtained from The National Transportation Safety Board and consists of airplane casualties from 1962
to February 2021.
The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. Section
II expatiates on related work in the domain of Airline Safety,
Crash and Severity detection. Section III discusses the dataset
used and methodology proposed. Section IV reports the observations and results and justifies them. Section V concludes
the paper and paves a way for the future work.
II. LITERATURE SURVEY
Multiple papers reviewed during the research phase gave an
overview of the background work already done and helped in
choosing the algorithms. Papers studied during the research
phase were pertaining to Machine Learning domain, usage of
Machine Learning techniques to identify causes of Airplanes
accidents and predict the possibility of such accidents.
Although there has been a rapid increase in the published
information in recent years, data may not always be obtained in
the desired format and hence data preprocessing plays a major
IEEE - 51525
12th ICCCNT 2021
July 6-8, 2021 - IIT - Kharagpur
Kharagpur, India
2021 12th International Conference on Computing Communication and Networking Technologies (ICCCNT) | 978-1-7281-8595-8/21/$31.00 ©2021 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/ICCCNT51525.2021.9579711
Authorized licensed use limited to: Alliance University. Downloaded on June 16,2025 at 06:37:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.
role in KDD (Knowledge Discovery in Databases). Paper [3]
reviews some of the techniques for data cleaning, handling
missing values, reduction of noisy data, data discretization
and discusses their reliability. Once the data is converted
into target form, it can be analysed to draw patterns in
a more efficient way. Artificial Intelligence is capable of
drawing correlations between entities and making reasonable
predictions without human intervention. Paper [4] reviews
types of machine learning and discusses various algorithms
along with their areas of strength and weaknesses. This paper
gave a deeper understanding of the working of algorithms and
helped us navigate the potential algorithms for proposed study.
Paper [5], implements a Logistic regression model on Aviation
data to predict whether the flights are accident prone or
not. Dataset for the model is chosen from Aviation Safety
Network and consists of 6000 records of accident data. Various
parameters of the data are factors identified to be possible
causes of accidents including Airplane, Flight Crew, Weather,
Maintenance etc. Proposed Logistic Model reported good
value of precision, recall and concluded that maintenance of
aircraft will significantly reduce the risk of accidents. Paper
[6], explores use of the Decision Tree model on aviation data
to find the effective parameters to reduce the number of deaths
in aviation. The model was applied on accident reports of FAA
containing 468 data records between the years 1970 to 2011.
For implementation and analysis purposes, the Decision Tree
module of WEKA was used and the generated model predicted
warnings of accidents reporting 87.39% accuracy. Paper [7],
proposes prediction of fatalities in air accidents using machine
learning algorithms. This paper considers data from Kaggle
with 5000 data points. After preprocessing, the data is split into
3:1 ratio. It utilises Neural Network, Chi-squared Automatic
Interaction Detection model, XGBoost Tree Model, Random
Forest Algorithm, Generalized and multiple linear models to
make predictions. Out of many algorithms, Random Forest
algorithm has found wide range of applications in clustering
as well as regression due to its ability to evaluate the impact of
features and is exploited in paper [8], which proposes a realtime crash prediction system wherein initially Random Forest
selects significant features and Bayesian Network Model performs the forecasting. The data containing fields like traffic,
speed, occupancy was recorded by sensors and was used to
build and evaluate the model. Performance of the model was
examined by an ROC Curve and reported 70.46% of accuracy
with a .07% of false alarm rate. Similarly, paper [9] deploys
a Random Forest algorithm to diagnose the airline turbulence.
Paper [10], implements Decision Tree Classifier, K-Nearest
Neighbors, Support Vector Machine, Artificial Neural Network
on data derived from FAA to predict the injuries and fatalities.
The data consisted of accident records from 1975 to 2002
and was preprocessed to remove redundant parameters, categorize numerical data etc. Said classification algorithms were
applied to predict the accident severity in terms of number
of injuries and casualties. The Artificial Neural Network was
found to give the most appropriate result even though all
models reported promising results. This paper gave a deeper
understanding on neural networks and why it reports the best
results.
Paper [11], proposed a novel method of combining the results
from ensemble of machine learning and deep learning models
for prediction of risk level to ensure aviation system security.
12 years of aviation data obtained from Aviation Reporting
System Database is first preprocessed to get rid of noisy data.
Then the ensemble classifier system utilizing SVM and Naive
Bayes classifier is combined with the RNN(Recurrent Neural
Network) model to be used for forecasting risk level in air
transport. The efficient hybrid model exhibited strength of
both the models and provided an accuracy of 88%. Paper [12]
presents a real time integrated health monitoring framework to
detect anomalous flight behaviour. The steps of experimentation include data preprocessing wherein raw data is resampled
using decimation by removing high frequency components and
then down sampling it. After this step, using Kernel PCA
coupled with Cosine Similarity, relevant features are extracted
from the data and the selected features are trained using the
SVR model to monitor engine status. Paper [13] adopts an
innovative statistical approach involving the use of Bayesian
inference and Hierarchical structures to develop estimation
and prediction models. The models developed explore safety
incident data, efficiently identify anomalies, assess the level
of risk, define an objective framework for comparing air
carriers, and finally predict and anticipate incidents. Paper [14]
proposes a hazard identification and prediction system using
PSO optimized SVM and LSTM neural network. Paper [15]
posits that most flight-related fatalities occur owing to loss of
state awareness and exploits strength of SVM to predict the
attentiveness of pilot during flight. Paper [16] predicts whether
the airline crash has occurred due to a bird strike using data
mining techniques. Paper [17] demonstrates traffic accident
prediction based on traffic flow, weather and other factors
using a Convolutional Neural Network (TAP-CNN). Paper [18]
uses different data mining techniques and algorithms to predict
the probability of road accidents and also predicts accident
prone locations with a higher emphasis on state highways and
ordinary district roads.
III. PROPOSED METHODOLOGY
This section discusses the methodology employed to predict
the severity of aviation accidents. This involves a number
of steps including obtaining the data, preprocessing it and
applying various machine learning algorithms.
1) Dataset Used: The dataset is obtained from The National
Transportation Safety Board (NTSB), an independent federal
accident investigation agency. The dataset consists of airplane
accidents from 1962 to February 2021. Out of the 30 parameters given in the dataset, 9 exhibited correlation with the
output parameter and hence were chosen for the study. The
parameters chosen are as follows:
• Latitude: Geographical latitude of the crash.
• Longitude: Geographical longitude of the crash.
IEEE - 51525
12th ICCCNT 2021
July 6-8, 2021 - IIT - Kharagpur
Kharagpur, India
Authorized licensed use limited to: Alliance University. Downloaded on June 16,2025 at 06:37:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.
• Amateur Built: This parameter states whether the aircraft
is built by an individual or a professional entity
• Number of Engines: Number of engines present in the
aircraft.
• Engine Type: Type of engine present in the aircraft. For
example Reciprocating, Turbo Shaft, Turbo Jet etc.
• Broad Phase of Flight: The phase of flight during the
crash. For example Landing, Takeoff, Maneuvering etc.
• Purpose of Flight: The purpose of the flight’s operation.
For example Business, Flight Test, Firefighting etc.
• Weather Condition: Weather condition during the crash.
For example VMC (Visual Meteorological Conditions),
IMC (Instrumental Meteorological Conditions) etc.
• Total Passengers Onboard: The number of people (including staff and pilot) on the aircraft at the time of crash.
2) Prediction Basis: Severity of an accident can be best
described in terms of human loss and vehicle damage. Hence
Aircraft Crash Severity is decided based upon casualties and
damage happened to the aircraft. The dataset contains information about damage dealt to the aircraft and was categorized
as shown in Table I.
TABLE I
CATEGORIES BASED ON DAMAGE DEALT.
Categories Description
Destroyed Highest Damage
Substantial Mediocre Damage
Minor Lowest Damage
The dataset in consideration contained the number of fatalities
and injuries caused during each accident and was used to
categorize the severity based on human loss as shown in Table
II.
TABLE II
CATEGORIES BASED ON FATALITIES.
Categories Description
Highly Fatal 4 or more fatalities
Significantly Fatal 3 or less fatalities
Non-Fatal No fatalities but injuries
If these categories are combined, we get 9 categories. Since
there is no such accident which was highly fatal but did
minor damage to the airplane, we are left with the following
8 categories:
• Highly Fatal and Destroyed
• Highly Fatal and Substantial
• Significantly Fatal and Destroyed
• Significantly Fatal and Substantial
• Significantly Fatal and Minor
• Non-Fatal and Destroyed
• Non-Fatal and Substantial
• Non-Fatal and Minor
3) Data Preprocessing: Data preprocessing is one of the most
important parts of machine learning projects. Raw and unstructured data obtained from the database has to be transformed
into a suitable format for further processing. It ameliorates the
accuracy and efficiency of the overall model.
Fig. 1. Data Preprocessing Flow Chart.
The following steps were followed for preprocessing the
received data:
• Deleting the non-required fields: The dataset received had
many fields like airplane id and incident category which
were either irrelevant or not required. These columns
were deleted.
• Filtering Aircraft Category: The dataset received was of
multiple types of aircrafts like blimps or gliders which
had extremely less number of accidents and hence needed
to be removed.
• Filling ‘NaN’ values: The dataset received had many
numeric fields with ‘NaN’ values instead of ‘0’, hence
these were replaced by ‘0’.
• One Hot Encoding: The dataset received had many categorical columns. Many encoding schemes were tried
IEEE - 51525
12th ICCCNT 2021
July 6-8, 2021 - IIT - Kharagpur
Kharagpur, India
Authorized licensed use limited to: Alliance University. Downloaded on June 16,2025 at 06:37:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.
but best results were obtained using one hot encoding
scheme.
• Making Categories: The prediction categories were made
according to Section 3.2.
• Cleaning Dataset: Checking datatype of the dataset and
rechecking that the dataset has all valid values i.e. no
‘infinity’ or ‘NaN’ values and discarding if there are any.
• Shuffling Dataset: Shuffling the dataset helps to reduce
variance and makes data uniform. Moreover, it makes the
models more general and prevents overfitting.
• Standard Scaling: Standard Scaling is a technique used
to subtract the feature and scale it to unit variance. It is
done feature-wise independently.
• Train Test Split: Data is split in 4:1 ratio for training and
testing respectively.
4) Algorithms Used: Machine Learning algorithms are a set
of methodologies that are capable of unravelling the hidden
patterns in data and deduce relations between input and output
parameters using a set of rules. These algorithms observe
different approaches, assumptions and statistical measures
accommodating wide range of cases. This property justifies
the fact that the models built using different algorithms have
different areas of strength and weaknesses making it mandatory to employ variety of algorithms for a particular use case.
The following algorithms were used to predict airplane crash
severity:
• Support Vector Machine: Support Vector Machine (SVM)
is a supervised machine learning algorithm used for
classification. It plots the data points in n-dimensional
space and generates a hyperplane to make the classification. SVM was chosen as it has no overfitting tendency
and performs well with a limited amount of data to
analyze. Since results obtained from SVM also depend
on the parameters,”Grid Search CV” was used for hyper
parameter tuning to obtain best parameters.
• Random Forest Classifier: Random Forest Classifier is
a supervised classification algorithm that consists of
multiple decision trees. These trees are merged together
to obtain an accurate and stable result. It has almost
the same hyperparameters as a decision tree or a bagging classifier. This classifier averages and combines the
results of multiple decision trees and hence possesses
high immunity to overfitting. It is very flexible, has less
variance and displays high accuracy making it the most
suited algorithm for any kind of data.
• Gradient Boosting Classifier: Gradient Boosting Classifier is a supervised classification ensemble and boosting
technique. It works in a stage-wise fashion, where it relies
on intuition to build the next best model. The errors of the
previous stages are minimized in the current stage thus
minimizing the overall prediction error. At each stage,
n (number of classes) regression trees are fitted except
in binary classification where only one regression tree is
used. This fitting is done on a negative gradient binomial
or multinomial deviance loss function.
• K Nearest Neighbors Classifier: K Nearest Neighbors
Classifier is a supervised classification algorithm and is
one of the simplest yet effective algorithms in machine
learning. It plots all the data points and then looks for
‘K’ number of nearest neighbors and takes the majority
of those to predict the class or classify. It is intensely used
in many real life scenarios as it is non-parametric i.e. it
does not make any assumptions about the distribution of
data. The optimal value of ‘K‘ is the square root of the
total number of samples in most cases.
• Logistic Regression: Logistic Regression is a supervised
classification model that uses a sigmoid function (Logistic
Function) for classification. Binary Logistic model is the
most basic LR model wherein the dependent variable
takes two values and multinomial Logistic Regression
wherein the output variable takes more than two values
but still is categorical. It uses regression to predict the
probability. This algorithm does not make any assumptions unlike Naive Bayes Classifier making it suitable for
all kinds of data. Immunity to overfitting and the fast
nature of this algorithm makes it appropriate to be used
with our dataset.
• Artificial Neural Network: Artificial Neural Network is
a group of interconnected nodes. Each node acts as a
neuron. These neurons are arranged in multiple computational layers. There is an input and an output layer.
Between these 2 layers are the hidden layers. An artificial
neural network simulates the electrical activity of a brain.
Artificial neural network was chosen because it is extremely accurate, works with insufficient knowledge, has
high fault tolerance and is very efficient with detecting
complex non-linear relationships between dependent and
independent variables.
• Stacking Ensemble Model: Stacking is an ensemble learning algorithm that combines predictions from two or more
models (divided into base and meta models).The base
level models are trained based on a complete training
set, then corresponding meta models are trained on the
outputs of the base level model. This uses a single model
to harness the performance of multiple models yielding
better results than individual models. For the purpose of
this study, Random Forest Classifier, Gradient Boosting
Classifier, Support Vector Machine, K Nearest Neighbor
Classifier and Logistic Regression were stacked to form
a single stacking model.
IV. RESULT
Fig. 2. shows the accuracy visualization of all the algorithms
discussed in Section III. Stacking Ensemble Model gives the
highest accuracy i.e. 91.66% followed by the Artificial Neural
Network with an accuracy of 91.51%. All the models are
significantly accurate with the accuracies being above 90%.
Also, the precision and recall scores for all the algorithms
indicate that the models are equitably balanced and give
reliable predictions.
IEEE - 51525
12th ICCCNT 2021
July 6-8, 2021 - IIT - Kharagpur
Kharagpur, India
Authorized licensed use limited to: Alliance University. Downloaded on June 16,2025 at 06:37:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.
Fig. 2. Accuracy of Different Algorithms.
TABLE III
RESULT TABLE.
Model Accuracy Precision Recall
SVM 90.89 0.9089 0.9089
Random Forest Classifier 91.42 0.9142 0.9142
Gradient Boosting Classifier 91.33 0.9133 0.9133
KNN Classifier 90.72 0.9072 0.9072
Logistic Regression 90.07 0.9007 0.9007
Artificial Neural Network 91.51 0.9151 0.9151
Stacking Ensemble Model 91.66 0.9166 0.9166
Table III shows the accuracies (in percentage) of all the
algorithms along with respective precision and recall score.
From section 3.1, it can be inferred that input parameters are
unlikely to hold a linear relationship with the crash severity
level. However, Artificial Neural Network is known to be
capable of learning and modelling complex and non-linear
relationships. It can also discover unseen relationships and
data after learning from a few inputs using the hidden layers
present in the model. This cumulatively leads ANN to exhibit
the highest accuracy of 91.51%.
On the other hand, Random Forest Classifier displays an
impressive accuracy of 91.42% due to a variety of salient
features depicted by the algorithm. Random Forest Classifier
differs from the Decision Tree Classifier in a way that it
decorrelates the tree by splitting on a random subset of features
thereby not allowing only the dominant predictors to be placed
at the top level of each tree. This property allows the model
to be unbiased even in case of high variance in the data.
Since it divides the data into subsets, it can also be applied
on the data with high dimensionality. These characteristics of
Random Forest algorithm make it a suitable algorithm in all
cases.
As shown in Table 3, various algorithms were applied to
find the Airplane Crash Severity, all of them possessing some
strengths as well as some weaknesses. Based on the idea that
different types of models are capable of solving different parts
of problem, strength of all these models stacked together gave
the strongest model i.e. Stacking Ensemble Model. Combining
performances of the contributing models to improve the overall
performance, this model exhibited the highest accuracy of
91.66%.
V. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE SCOPE
It can be inferred from Section 2 that a lot of efforts have been
put in predicting whether an airplane accident will take place
or not, but only a little work attempts to predict the severity of
those accidents. The paper bridges this gap by applying various
algorithms and analysing their performance. This study also
considers damage incurred to the airplane along with fatalities
caused. The categorisation in severity levels depicts a broader
view of crash accident.
The paper proposed 7 different models for airplane crash severity prediction and combined the models into a stronger stacked
model. For the efficacy of model, severity was categorized
into 8 levels based on aircraft damage and casualties. The
accuracies reported reassured the reliability of the model. The
prediction system proposed is robust enough to be deployed
in emergency situations as well as pre-flight analysis.
The proposed model can be extrapolated to predict the severity
of all types of aircraft crashes. If adequate data is available,
the model can also be trained to take additional parameters
such as experience of cabin crew, aircraft’s safety equipment,
dimensions and weight of the aircraft etc. The model with
minor tweaks can be integrated into simulation softwares to
better equip the pilots for emergency situations as well as
with the crash prediction systems in use, to get an idea of
the severity if at all a crash occurs.
REFERENCES
[1] https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20181002005004/en/AirTransport-Supports-65.5-Million-Jobs-and-2.7-Trillion-in-EconomicActivity
[2] https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1298298/
[3] Bhaya, Wesam. (2017). Review of Data Preprocessing Techniques in
Data Mining. Journal of Engineering and Applied Sciences. 12. 4102-
4107. 10.3923/jeasci.2017.4102.4107.
[4] Mahesh, Batta. (2019). Machine Learning Algorithms - A Review.
10.21275/ART20203995.
[5] P. Mathur, S. K. Khatri and M. Sharma, ”Prediction of aviation accidents
using logistic regression model,” 2017 International Conference on Infocom Technologies and Unmanned Systems (Trends and Future Directions) (ICTUS), 2017, pp. 725-728, doi: 10.1109/ICTUS.2017.8286102.
[6] A. B. A. Christopher and S. A. alias Balamurugan, ”Data mining
approaches for aircraft accidents prediction: An empirical study on
Turkey airline,” 2013 IEEE International Conference ON Emerging
Trends in Computing, Communication and Nanotechnology (ICECCN),
2013, pp. 739-745, doi: 10.1109/ICE-CCN.2013.6528602.
IEEE - 51525
12th ICCCNT 2021
July 6-8, 2021 - IIT - Kharagpur
Kharagpur, India
Authorized licensed use limited to: Alliance University. Downloaded on June 16,2025 at 06:37:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.
[7] Nikita Pande, Devyani Gupta, Jitendra Shreemali, Prasun Chakrabarti
Predicting Fatalities in Air Accidents using CHAID XGBoost
Generalized Linear Model Neural Network and Ensemble
Models of Machine Learning. Volume-9 Issue-3S, March, 2020.
https://doi.org/10.35940/ijeat.C1009.0393S20
[8] M. Wu, D. Shan, Z. Wang, X. Sun, J. Liu and M. Sun, ”A Bayesian
Network Model for Real-time Crash Prediction Based on Selected
Variables by Random Forest,” 2019 5th International Conference on
Transportation Information and Safety (ICTIS), 2019, pp. 670-677, doi:
10.1109/ICTIS.2019.8883694.
[9] Williams, J.K. Using random forests to diagnose aviation turbulence.
Mach Learn 95, 51–70 (2014). https://doi.org/10.1007/s10994-013-
5346-7
[10] R. Alan Burnett and Dong Si. 2017. Prediction of Injuries and Fatalities
in Aviation Accidents through Machine Learning. In Proceedings of the
International Conference on Compute and Data Analysis (ICCDA ’17).
Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 60–68.
DOI:https://doi.org/10.1145/3093241.3093288
[11] A. Omar Alkhamisi and R. Mehmood, ”An Ensemble Machine and
Deep Learning Model for Risk Prediction in Aviation Systems,” 2020
6th Conference on Data Science and Machine Learning Applications
(CDMA), 2020, pp. 54-59, doi: 10.1109/CDMA47397.2020.00015.
[12] Lee, Hyunseong & Li, Guoyi & Rai, Ashwin & Chattopadhyay, Aditi.
(2019). Anomaly Detection of Aircraft System using Kernel-based
Learning Algorithm. 10.2514/6.2019-1224.
[13] Arnaldo Valdes, R. M., G´omez Comendador, V. F., Perez Sanz, L.,
& Rodriguez Sanz, A. (2018). Prediction of aircraft safety incidents
using Bayesian inference and hierarchical structures. Safety Science,
104, 216–230.doi:10.1016/j.ssci.2018.01.008
[14] D. Zhou, X. Zhuang, H. Zuo, H. Wang and H. Yan, ”Deep LearningBased Approach for Civil Aircraft Hazard Identification and Prediction,”
in IEEE Access, vol. 8, pp. 103665-103683, 2020, doi: 10.1109/ACCESS.2020.2997371.
[15] A. Mishra, K. K. Shrivastava, A. A. B. and N. A. Quadir, ”Reducing
Commercial Aviation Fatalities Using Support Vector Machines,” 2019
International Conference on Smart Systems and Inventive Technology
(ICSSIT), 2019, pp. 360-364, doi: 10.1109/ICSSIT46314.2019.8987752.
[16] S. Nimmagadda, S. Sivakumar, N. Kumar and D. Haritha, ”Predicting
Airline Crash due to Birds Strike Using Machine Learning,” 2020 7th
International Conference on Smart Structures and Systems (ICSSS),
2020, pp. 1-4, doi: 10.1109/ICSSS49621.2020.9202137.
[17] L. Wenqi, L. Dongyu and Y. Menghua, ”A model of traffic accident
prediction based on convolutional neural network,” 2017 2nd IEEE International Conference on Intelligent Transportation Engineering (ICITE),
2017, pp. 198-202, doi: 10.1109/ICITE.2017.8056908.
[18] G. Kaur and H. Kaur, ”Prediction of the cause of accident and accident prone location on roads using data mining techniques,” 2017
8th International Conference on Computing, Communication and Networking Technologies (ICCCNT), 2017, pp. 1-7, doi: 10.1109/ICCCNT.2017.8204001.
IEEE - 51525
12th ICCCNT 2021
July 6-8, 2021 - IIT - Kharagpur
Kharagpur, India
Authorized licensed use limited to: Alliance University. Downloaded on June 16,2025 at 06:37:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. 